README.md, before:

<p align="center"><img src ="https://github.com/bokuweb/re-resizable/blob/master/logo.png?raw=true" /></p>

<p align="center">📏 A resizable component for React.</p>

<p align="center"><a href="https://circleci.com/gh/bokuweb/re-resizable/tree/master">
<img src="https://circleci.com/gh/bokuweb/re-resizable/tree/master.svg?style=svg" alt="Build Status" /></a>
<a href="https://www.npmjs.com/package/re-resizable">
<img src="https://img.shields.io/npm/v/re-resizable.svg" alt="Build Status" /></a>
<a href="https://www.npmjs.com/package/re-resizable">
<img src="https://img.shields.io/npm/dm/re-resizable.svg" /></a>
<a href="https://renovatebot.com/">
<img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/renovate-enabled-brightgreen.svg" /></a>
<a href="https://github.com/prettier/prettier">
<img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/styled_with-prettier-ff69b4.svg" /></a>
<a href="https://bokuweb.github.io/re-resizable/">
<img src="https://github.com/storybooks/press/blob/master/badges/storybook.svg" /></a>
</p>

## Table of Contents

- [Screenshot](#Screenshot)
_ [Live Demo](#live-demo)
  - [Storybook](#storybook)
  - [CodeSandbox](#codesandbox)
- [Install](#install)
- [Usage](#usage)
- [Props](#props)
- [Instance API](#instance-api)
  - [updateSize(size: { width: number | string, height: number | string }): void](#updateSize-void)
- [Test](#test)
- [Related](#related)

## Screenshot

![screenshot](https://github.com/bokuweb/re-resizable/blob/master/docs/screenshot.gif?raw=true)

## Live Demo

### Storybook

[Storybook](http://bokuweb.github.io/re-resizable/)

### CodeSandbox

[![Edit xp9p7272m4](https://codesandbox.io/static/img/play-codesandbox.svg)](https://codesandbox.io/s/xp9p7272m4)  
[CodeSandbox](https://codesandbox.io/s/xp9p7272m4)  
[CodeSandbox(TypeScript)](https://codesandbox.io/s/1vwo2p4l64)

## Install

```sh
$ npm install --save re-resizable
```

## Usage

### Example with `defaultSize`

```javascript
<Resizable
  defaultSize={{
    width:320,
    height:200,
  }}
>
  Sample with default size
</Resizable>
```

### Example with `size`

If you use `size` props, please manage state by yourself.

```javascript
<Resizable
  size={{ width: this.state.width, height: this.state.height }}
  onResizeStop={(e, direction, ref, d) => {
    this.setState({
      width: this.state.width + d.width,
      height: this.state.height + d.height,
    });
  }}
>
  Sample with size
</Resizable>
```

## Props

#### `defaultSize?: { width: (number | string), height: (number | string) };`

Specifies the `width` and `height` that the dragged item should start at.
For example, you can set `300`, `'300px'`, `50%`.
If both `defaultSize` and `size` omitted, set `'auto'`.

`defaultSize` will be ignored when `size` set.

#### `size?: { width: (number | string), height: (number | string) };`

The `size` property is used to set the size of the component.
For example, you can set `300`, `'300px'`, `50%`.

Use `size` if you need to control size state by yourself.

#### `className?: string;`

The `className` property is used to set the custom `className` of a resizable component.

#### `style?: { [key: string]: string };`

The `style` property is used to set the custom `style` of a resizable component.

#### `minWidth?: number | string;`

The `minWidth` property is used to set the minimum width of a resizable component. Defaults to 10px.

#### `minHeight?: number | string;`

The `minHeight` property is used to set the minimum height of a resizable component. Defaults to 10px.

#### `maxWidth?: number | string;`

The `maxWidth` property is used to set the maximum width of a resizable component.

#### `maxHeight?: number | string`;

The `maxHeight` property is used to set the maximum height of a resizable component.

#### `grid?: [number, number];`

The `grid` property is used to specify the increments that resizing should snap to. Defaults to `[1, 1]`.

#### `snap?: { x?: Array<number>, y?: Array<number> };`

The `snap` property is used to specify absolute pixel values that resizing should snap to. `x` and `y` are both optional, allowing you to only include the axis you want to define. Defaults to `null`.

#### `resizeRatio?: number | string;`

The `resizeRatio` property is used to set the number of pixels the resizable component scales by compared to the number of pixels the mouse/touch moves. Defaults to `1` (for a 1:1 ratio). The number set is the left side of the ratio, `2` will give a 2:1 ratio.

#### `lockAspectRatio?: boolean | number;`

The `lockAspectRatio` property is used to lock aspect ratio.
Set to `true` to lock the aspect ratio based on the initial size.
Set to a numeric value to lock a specific aspect ratio (such as `16/9`).
If set to numeric, make sure to set initial height/width to values with correct aspect ratio.
If omitted, set `false`.

#### `lockAspectRatioExtraWidth?: number;`

The `lockAspectRatioExtraWidth` property enables a resizable component to maintain an aspect ratio plus extra width.
For instance, a video could be displayed 16:9 with a 50px side bar.
If omitted, set `0`.

#### `lockAspectRatioExtraHeight?: number;`

The `lockAspectRatioExtraHeight` property enables a resizable component to maintain an aspect ratio plus extra height.
For instance, a video could be displayed 16:9 with a 50px header bar.
If omitted, set `0`.

#### `bounds?: ('window' | 'parent' | HTMLElement);`

Specifies resize boundaries.

#### `handleStyles?: HandleStyles;`

The `handleStyles` property is used to override the style of one or more resize handles.
Only the axis you specify will have its handle style replaced.
If you specify a value for `right` it will completely replace the styles for the `right` resize handle,
but other handle will still use the default styles.

#### `handleClasses?: HandleClassName;`

The `handleClasses` property is used to set the className of one or more resize handles.

#### `handleComponent?: HandleComponent;`

The `handleComponent` property is used to pass a React Component to be rendered as one or more resize handle. For example, this could be used to use an arrow icon as a handle..

#### `handleWrapperStyle?: { [key: string]: string };`

The `handleWrapperStyle` property is used to override the style of resize handles wrapper.

#### `handleWrapperClass?: string;`

The `handleWrapperClass` property is used to override the className of resize handles wrapper.

#### `enable?: ?Enable;`

The `enable` property is used to set the resizable permission of a resizable component.

The permission of `top`, `right`, `bottom`, `left`, `topRight`, `bottomRight`, `bottomLeft`, `topLeft` direction resizing.
If omitted, all resizer are enabled.
If you want to permit only right direction resizing, set `{ top:false, right:true, bottom:false, left:false, topRight:false, bottomRight:false, bottomLeft:false, topLeft:false }`.

#### `onResizeStart?: ResizeStartCallBack;`

`ResizeStartCallBack` type is below.

```javascript
type ResizeStartCallback = (
  e: SyntheticMouseEvent<HTMLDivElement> | SyntheticTouchEvent<HTMLDivElement>,
  dir: ResizableDirection,
  refToElement: HTMLDivElement,
) => void;
```

Calls when resizable component resize start.

#### `onResize?: ResizeCallback;`

#### `scale?: number`;

The `scale` property is used in the scenario where the resizable element is a descendent of an element using css scaling (e.g. - `transform: scale(0.5)`).

### Basic

`ResizeCallback` type is below.

```javascript
type ResizeCallback = (
  event: MouseEvent | TouchEvent,
  direction: ResizableDirection,
  refToElement: HTMLDivElement,
  delta: NumberSize,
) => void;
```

Calls when resizable component resizing.

#### `onResizeStop?: ResizeCallback;`

`ResizeCallback` type is below.

```javascript
type ResizeCallback = (
  event: MouseEvent | TouchEvent,
  direction: ResizableDirection,
  refToElement: HTMLDivElement,
  delta: NumberSize,
) => void;
```

Calls when resizable component resize stop.

## Instance API

#### * `updateSize(size: { width: number | string, height: number | string }): void`

Update component size.

`grid`, `snap`, `max/minWidth`, `max/minHeight` props is ignored, when this method called.

- for example

```javascript
class YourComponent extends Component {

  // ...

  update() {
    this.resizable.updateSize({ width: 200, height: 300 });
  }

  render() {
    return (
      <Resizable ref={c => { this.resizable = c; }}>
        example
      </Resizable>
    );
  }

  // ...
}
```

## Contribute

If you have a feature request, please add it as an issue or make a pull request.

If you have a bug to report, please reproduce the bug in [CodeSandbox](https://codesandbox.io/s/ll587k677z) to help us easily isolate it.

## Test

``` sh
npm test
```

## Related

- [react-rnd](https://github.com/bokuweb/react-rnd)
- [react-sortable-pane](https://github.com/bokuweb/react-sortable-pane)

Commit message:

Add the possibility to limit snapping using a snapGap property

README.md, after:

<p align="center"><img src ="https://github.com/bokuweb/re-resizable/blob/master/logo.png?raw=true" /></p>

<p align="center">📏 A resizable component for React.</p>

<p align="center"><a href="https://circleci.com/gh/bokuweb/re-resizable/tree/master">
<img src="https://circleci.com/gh/bokuweb/re-resizable/tree/master.svg?style=svg" alt="Build Status" /></a>
<a href="https://www.npmjs.com/package/re-resizable">
<img src="https://img.shields.io/npm/v/re-resizable.svg" alt="Build Status" /></a>
<a href="https://www.npmjs.com/package/re-resizable">
<img src="https://img.shields.io/npm/dm/re-resizable.svg" /></a>
<a href="https://renovatebot.com/">
<img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/renovate-enabled-brightgreen.svg" /></a>
<a href="https://github.com/prettier/prettier">
<img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/styled_with-prettier-ff69b4.svg" /></a>
<a href="https://bokuweb.github.io/re-resizable/">
<img src="https://github.com/storybooks/press/blob/master/badges/storybook.svg" /></a>
</p>

## Table of Contents

- [Screenshot](#Screenshot)
_ [Live Demo](#live-demo)
  - [Storybook](#storybook)
  - [CodeSandbox](#codesandbox)
- [Install](#install)
- [Usage](#usage)
- [Props](#props)
- [Instance API](#instance-api)
  - [updateSize(size: { width: number | string, height: number | string }): void](#updateSize-void)
- [Test](#test)
- [Related](#related)

## Screenshot

![screenshot](https://github.com/bokuweb/re-resizable/blob/master/docs/screenshot.gif?raw=true)

## Live Demo

### Storybook

[Storybook](http://bokuweb.github.io/re-resizable/)

### CodeSandbox

[![Edit xp9p7272m4](https://codesandbox.io/static/img/play-codesandbox.svg)](https://codesandbox.io/s/xp9p7272m4)  
[CodeSandbox](https://codesandbox.io/s/xp9p7272m4)  
[CodeSandbox(TypeScript)](https://codesandbox.io/s/1vwo2p4l64)

## Install

```sh
$ npm install --save re-resizable
```

## Usage

### Example with `defaultSize`

```javascript
<Resizable
  defaultSize={{
    width:320,
    height:200,
  }}
>
  Sample with default size
</Resizable>
```

### Example with `size`

If you use `size` props, please manage state by yourself.

```javascript
<Resizable
  size={{ width: this.state.width, height: this.state.height }}
  onResizeStop={(e, direction, ref, d) => {
    this.setState({
      width: this.state.width + d.width,
      height: this.state.height + d.height,
    });
  }}
>
  Sample with size
</Resizable>
```

## Props

#### `defaultSize?: { width: (number | string), height: (number | string) };`

Specifies the `width` and `height` that the dragged item should start at.
For example, you can set `300`, `'300px'`, `50%`.
If both `defaultSize` and `size` omitted, set `'auto'`.

`defaultSize` will be ignored when `size` set.

#### `size?: { width: (number | string), height: (number | string) };`

The `size` property is used to set the size of the component.
For example, you can set `300`, `'300px'`, `50%`.

Use `size` if you need to control size state by yourself.

#### `className?: string;`

The `className` property is used to set the custom `className` of a resizable component.

#### `style?: { [key: string]: string };`

The `style` property is used to set the custom `style` of a resizable component.

#### `minWidth?: number | string;`

The `minWidth` property is used to set the minimum width of a resizable component. Defaults to 10px.

#### `minHeight?: number | string;`

The `minHeight` property is used to set the minimum height of a resizable component. Defaults to 10px.

#### `maxWidth?: number | string;`

The `maxWidth` property is used to set the maximum width of a resizable component.

#### `maxHeight?: number | string`;

The `maxHeight` property is used to set the maximum height of a resizable component.

#### `grid?: [number, number];`

The `grid` property is used to specify the increments that resizing should snap to. Defaults to `[1, 1]`.

#### `snap?: { x?: Array<number>, y?: Array<number> };`

The `snap` property is used to specify absolute pixel values that resizing should snap to. `x` and `y` are both optional, allowing you to only include the axis you want to define. Defaults to `null`.

#### `snapGap?: number`

The `snapGap` property is used to specify the minimum gap required in order to move to the next snapping target. Defaults to `0` which means that snap targets are always used.

#### `resizeRatio?: number | string;`

The `resizeRatio` property is used to set the number of pixels the resizable component scales by compared to the number of pixels the mouse/touch moves. Defaults to `1` (for a 1:1 ratio). The number set is the left side of the ratio, `2` will give a 2:1 ratio.

#### `lockAspectRatio?: boolean | number;`

The `lockAspectRatio` property is used to lock aspect ratio.
Set to `true` to lock the aspect ratio based on the initial size.
Set to a numeric value to lock a specific aspect ratio (such as `16/9`).
If set to numeric, make sure to set initial height/width to values with correct aspect ratio.
If omitted, set `false`.

#### `lockAspectRatioExtraWidth?: number;`

The `lockAspectRatioExtraWidth` property enables a resizable component to maintain an aspect ratio plus extra width.
For instance, a video could be displayed 16:9 with a 50px side bar.
If omitted, set `0`.

#### `lockAspectRatioExtraHeight?: number;`

The `lockAspectRatioExtraHeight` property enables a resizable component to maintain an aspect ratio plus extra height.
For instance, a video could be displayed 16:9 with a 50px header bar.
If omitted, set `0`.

#### `bounds?: ('window' | 'parent' | HTMLElement);`

Specifies resize boundaries.

#### `handleStyles?: HandleStyles;`

The `handleStyles` property is used to override the style of one or more resize handles.
Only the axis you specify will have its handle style replaced.
If you specify a value for `right` it will completely replace the styles for the `right` resize handle,
but other handle will still use the default styles.

#### `handleClasses?: HandleClassName;`

The `handleClasses` property is used to set the className of one or more resize handles.

#### `handleComponent?: HandleComponent;`

The `handleComponent` property is used to pass a React Component to be rendered as one or more resize handle. For example, this could be used to use an arrow icon as a handle..

#### `handleWrapperStyle?: { [key: string]: string };`

The `handleWrapperStyle` property is used to override the style of resize handles wrapper.

#### `handleWrapperClass?: string;`

The `handleWrapperClass` property is used to override the className of resize handles wrapper.

#### `enable?: ?Enable;`

The `enable` property is used to set the resizable permission of a resizable component.

The permission of `top`, `right`, `bottom`, `left`, `topRight`, `bottomRight`, `bottomLeft`, `topLeft` direction resizing.
If omitted, all resizer are enabled.
If you want to permit only right direction resizing, set `{ top:false, right:true, bottom:false, left:false, topRight:false, bottomRight:false, bottomLeft:false, topLeft:false }`.

#### `onResizeStart?: ResizeStartCallBack;`

`ResizeStartCallBack` type is below.

```javascript
type ResizeStartCallback = (
  e: SyntheticMouseEvent<HTMLDivElement> | SyntheticTouchEvent<HTMLDivElement>,
  dir: ResizableDirection,
  refToElement: HTMLDivElement,
) => void;
```

Calls when resizable component resize start.

#### `onResize?: ResizeCallback;`

#### `scale?: number`;

The `scale` property is used in the scenario where the resizable element is a descendent of an element using css scaling (e.g. - `transform: scale(0.5)`).

### Basic

`ResizeCallback` type is below.

```javascript
type ResizeCallback = (
  event: MouseEvent | TouchEvent,
  direction: ResizableDirection,
  refToElement: HTMLDivElement,
  delta: NumberSize,
) => void;
```

Calls when resizable component resizing.

#### `onResizeStop?: ResizeCallback;`

`ResizeCallback` type is below.

```javascript
type ResizeCallback = (
  event: MouseEvent | TouchEvent,
  direction: ResizableDirection,
  refToElement: HTMLDivElement,
  delta: NumberSize,
) => void;
```

Calls when resizable component resize stop.

## Instance API

#### * `updateSize(size: { width: number | string, height: number | string }): void`

Update component size.

`grid`, `snap`, `max/minWidth`, `max/minHeight` props is ignored, when this method called.

- for example

```javascript
class YourComponent extends Component {

  // ...

  update() {
    this.resizable.updateSize({ width: 200, height: 300 });
  }

  render() {
    return (
      <Resizable ref={c => { this.resizable = c; }}>
        example
      </Resizable>
    );
  }

  // ...
}
```

## Contribute

If you have a feature request, please add it as an issue or make a pull request.

If you have a bug to report, please reproduce the bug in [CodeSandbox](https://codesandbox.io/s/ll587k677z) to help us easily isolate it.

## Test

``` sh
npm test
```

## Related

- [react-rnd](https://github.com/bokuweb/react-rnd)
- [react-sortable-pane](https://github.com/bokuweb/react-sortable-pane)
